um yeah so let me just okay so can you
talking about my sprigs not really
excited yeah we can talk about
myers-briggs do you like myers-briggs
can we oh my gosh I'd love ladies freaks
sure what what do you love about
myers-briggs hmm
I really like it because for me it's
like a gateway to talk about yourself
and other people
yeah absolutely hey do you know what
your myers-briggs type is yeah I always
get infp yep sounds about right
whatever you i am i and TP make sense
yeah so I I think I definitely make
sense
you're not very like neither of us are
sort of rigorous or hardcore which makes
us more peace than Jays and then I think
the big difference between us is that
you're an F and I'm a tea feeling and
thinking yeah
so how have you been and we could talk
more about myers-briggs but um I've been
good much better yeah it's pretty good
awesome I'm happy to hear that
um what's sinking what's changed um well
okay there were like two things since
the last time we talked that really
stood out to me personally great and I
think one of them was you said I was
like a sponge mm-hmm and learning that
was kind of useful like oh okay this is
just how I am and I think it's more
important that I learn what to do
afterwards yep which was really cool and
I didn't I didn't know what empath or
whatever the heck that was so I looked
that up too and all that stuff and the
second thing was um you said you thought
it was like a waste if I never found
love again or something like that I
never tried or something like that
along those lines right
okay yes yeah I'm trying okay just cool
okay cool so so um I was thinking maybe
we could talk a little bit since you're
you're feeling better I think a lot of
times what this stream is is focused on
is helping people who are down kind of
come back to baseline but I think what
is just as important is like exploring
how like where goodness and life comes
from so we spend a lot of time talking
about where badness comes from right so
like trauma and people hurt you and this
and that but like I think it's just as
important to understand like where does
goodness come from and how can you build
like goodness into your life okay so you
say that things are better and can you
help me understand a little bit about
you know how those two things about sort
of you know for a lack I'm trying to
figure out how to say this without
sounding cheesy but I can't do it
so not giving up on love for the lack of
it how can I say that but that's Anna
and and then also like like recognition
that you're kind of a sponge and that
you absorb in this kind of this
interesting thing about being a sponge
is that like actually helps the people
around you because you you kind of take
some of their negative energy and you it
makes you kind of a good friend but it
actually costs you a lot to do that but
so help me understand a little bit about
those two aspects those two things that
we talked about and have those been kind
of like active and a part of your life
or have you changed the way that you've
started to live because of those I have
accepted myself more so you know
throughout my life people have always
told me you're too sensitive or you're
too emotional things like that I started
to I guess yes I am very sensitive I am
very emotional I do take in literally
everything around me and kind of
acknowledging that helped me I guess
yeah awesome man much and sometimes like
I still don't know how to deal with it I
guess yeah it's not perfect sometimes I
still get really upset over like stupid
stupid
okay yeah how do you do that how do you
like what does that mean acknowledge it
what does that tell it because that's
why good stuff in there um I used to
think it was not a good quality I guess
like oh I am really emotional I do take
a lot of things in personally and I
didn't know how to like just stop it
yeah I don't think it's possible
um so by just acknowledging that this is
just who I am and I need to learn how to
work around that instead of trying to
change myself for no reason I guess yeah
beautifully said and I'm just gonna kind
of repeat back what I heard so I think I
think Lily like this is exactly what
we're here for
my mission in life is to try to help
people understand that instead of trying
to live a life of someone that they're
not live that live your life with all of
your advantages in all of your
disadvantages and what I see people
doing time and time and time again is
imagine you're playing poker you play
poker so so like you know I think what I
see people doing is like you're dealt a
certain hand in poker and what people
try to do is they spend their entire
life wishing that they had a different
hand and then trying to change their
hand into someone else's hand and they
think that oh if I have like pocket if I
had pocket aces then I would be
successful because that guy over there
has pocket aces and if he's got pocket
aces then then I would be fine instead
of playing the hand that they're dealt
which let's remember that like pocket
aces doesn't always win even though
theoretically it's the best hand you
just have to play the hand that you've
got and and what I really love about
what you're saying is that like you're
starting to do that and and I think a
lot of like success and and suffering so
I think suffering and Happiness like
that starts to tip when you start to
accept for yourself for who you are and
that also leads to success because
you're like you're trying to play a game
for which you're not like built you're
trying to play other people's games and
I I don't think that you're too
sensitive I don't think you're too
emotional I think you are sensitive and
emotional and that's that's a strength
and a weakness and yeah I think it's
wonderful that you're starting to accept
yourself how but how are you able to
start doing that because I mean is does
that make sense like because yeah I can
imagine there are a lot of people who
have trouble accepting things about
themselves because they've been told
that that thing is like not good it
definitely helped because okay after a
first session I had so many people
messaging me how much that helped them
and like how inspired and I'm like wow
that's pretty cool maybe they're on to
something you know maybe I I did help
them you know and then just even by
starting to accept it it shifted my
mentality a lot because instead of just
I guess the first step of just accepting
yourself just really helps even if I
don't do anything else you have that
make sense
yeah it makes perfect sense and it's one
of the most mind-boggling things so I
like like the thing that's really
confusing is when I work with a lot of
people they keep on asking how do I
change how do I change how do I change
and and the crazy thing is like your
goal is not to change it's actually to
accept the person that you are and once
you do that like once you start
accepting yourself what happens what
changes in your mind in your head in
your life in your behaviors how does
that affect you when you start to accept
yourself for who you are
feels like the first step into I'm so by
avoiding things I just woke up hold on
take your time um it feels like
something positive instead of something
that I have looked down on I don't know
if that makes sense okay it just feels
more freeing like to accept that hey
this is just this is me this is who I am
I'm going to live with it and this is
how it's gonna be
it feels better yeah freeing yeah
awesome
I'm so happy was it hard yeah but even
um accepting is one thing too but it's
still like hard for me I guess yeah I
still have you know some given how I am
and that I stream for a living and that
my life is exposed to thousands of
people it's weird like my friends often
joke that I have like the worst
personality to be a public figure
because I take things in so much all the
good all the bad yep and yeah so it's
something I'm so you know I think I'll
always it's like a path that always be
on yep yes how very zen of you yeah also
how very zen of you right that's what
zen is all about it is what it is and
and mmm right that's what they always
talk about so I think that's what your
what yours so the other thing that we
can call this is I think you're starting
to live in the present
so so instead of starting to live the
imagined life of what you could what
your life could look like if you were a
different person is also something that
a lot of people do right so they imagine
themselves is a different person and
what their life would be like and then
they like start building these fantasies
about my life could be this if only I
was someone else and what I hear you
doing is saying okay I'm gonna stop
living this imagined life of someone
else I'm gonna stop living
you know like alter ego like shadow
universe Lily who is like not emotional
and not sensitive and instead of
becoming your alter ego sit version of
yourself you're just you've started to
accept yourself for who you are and it
can be liberating because now you're no
longer like like think about why that's
liberating it's because you're no longer
trying to live a life that doesn't exist
it's really hard to live a life that
doesn't exist and we try to do it all
the time the other thing that you're
noticing which is also awesome is just
because you accept yourself doesn't mean
that everything goes away
sounds like kimmy14 to me is that Timmy
Timmy penny penny sounds like Timmy
agrees okay hey how long have you had to
me oh I've had her since let's see like
three years now how do you like having
it on it's amazing okay so I got Timmy
okay I was in this super depressed state
back then
super super depressed literally did not
want to get out of bed and I hurt I
don't know if this is I don't know
whether it's the right or wrong reason I
don't care anymore but I heard that
getting a dog can motivate you to get
out of bed huh and have something to
take care of and look forward to and
that's the reason I got her
mostly huh and it worked like so well
she gave me a meaning and that's fine I
feel loved
for her no no no me yeah that's awesome
yeah I think animals um you know can be
really awesome for us and we can be
really awesome for them and that
relationship can be really powerful also
they do things like reduce mortality
like so they oh wow yeah literally thank
you there's studies that show that
animals will literally reduce mortality
and people who have animals live longer
bizarre I love dogs I love her it's just
it's amazing how much she makes me so
happy
yeah so I just want to point out that I
think that too is because you're an
emotional sponge right so like like the
dog is going to be able to affect you in
a positive way greater than it would be
able to affect someone who is
insensitive because you can open
yourself up to like her joy and
compassion and licks so that's awesome
like dogs can make everyone happy yeah
I'm not so sure about that I mean I hear
that they're these people called cat
people I grew up with three German
shepherds so I'm not sure what the cat
what's the deal with the cat people but
the more time I spend on Reddit the more
time I kind of like the more I find
myself wanting to get a cat they're like
more low maintenance right you don't
need to potty train them or anything
just kind of there yeah but also
apparently some of them are [ __ ] not
not the cat people the cats themselves
oh yeah yeah if you're lucky you get a
cat that acts like a doc Oh interesting
interesting anyway so just going back to
you mentioned that there's still some
problems is it okay if we just kind of
like understand those a little bit in
the context of what's changed and what
hasn't changed yeah so can you give me
an example of you know so it sounds like
you're you've turned over a new leaf
your check you're living your life
slightly differently you're changing the
way that you look at yourself and yet
problems still arise
um because even if I accept that this is
who I am I'm still going to be affected
by it that's not gonna change
absolutely so now I'm dealing with how
do I better cope with it you know I
better deal with it which is still I
think an ongoing process yeah so like
I'm really glad that you recognized that
so I'm gonna try to kind of explain this
so acceptance doesn't really happen in
our traditional mind it sort of happens
outside of our mind so like I know this
isn't gonna sound weird but like there's
there are different layers of mind and
so what I think you've managed to do is
gain some degree of acceptance that sort
of exists outside of your mind and your
mind can still have the roller coaster
you can still feel good things and bad
things but the more that you kind of
accept all of the roller coaster the
less impactful the roller coaster
becomes does that make sense or not
really anything okay
the other thing is that it doesn't
actually change the fact that you still
have a roller coaster so I think what
you're still experiencing is that
there's still a roller coaster it's just
the roller coaster it's like you're more
protected against the roller coaster
does that is that how it feels it's kind
of I guess the fact that there's still a
roller coaster yeah but there's still a
roller coaster right that's what's kind
of weird about this is that like what
what you what you've grown and you
haven't so a lot of people who feel like
you know they're they are emotionally
sensitive what they try to do is become
emotionally less sensitive so that's
exactly that's the equivalent of
reducing the roller coaster it's like
changing the roller coaster into like a
flat drive but that doesn't work so life
is still gonna send you a roller coaster
it's your ability to step back from the
roller coaster and kind of accept it for
what it is that actually gives you a
sense of peace but the roller coaster
still happens and I think that's what
you mean by the problems like you don't
you haven't stopped becoming emotionally
sensitive you're just better at
understanding that you're emotionally
sensitive and like more accepting of
that which makes the roller
are less painful fair yeah okay that's
me that's a good way to put it yeah so
so there so can you give me an example
of like what is like what's something
that you've experienced that has been a
little bit more problematic recently
okay um I'm a public figure yourself
most of my life is online I share a lot
of things with my audience I'm very very
very very open about literally
everything huh but I think sometimes
that gives people stuff to use against
me okay because I'm so open though see
that and I guess form their own analysis
on my life my relationships etc that are
just completely wrong but yeah and that
bugs me because I'm like that's not true
yeah
yes absolutely right so people are gonna
just they're gonna make all kinds of
judgments over the Internet and because
you're open they're going to feel like
they understand you because you share so
much but they're they're not really I
mean they're missing crucial even though
you're super open it sounds like they're
missing crucial pieces of the puzzle
which is like what your actual
experiences yes I mean I choose to be
open so and this sounds like I expected
cuz it's the internet you know you put
yourself out there people are going to
form their own opinions about you and I
understand that I guess it's just I just
deeply don't like being misunderstood
that's like the one thing that's why I'm
open and honest because I make if you
need to know something like I will tell
you don't make wrong assumptions on your
house okay what do you think what do you
think it is that bothers you about being
deeply misunderstood it's it's like
people thinking you're this one you're
not and that kind of bothers me I guess
because I'm not that anything so it
almost sounds like you it was part of
your openness is to prevent people
misunderstanding you yes sometimes and
also because I just like sharing things
it's just fun yeah so I think they're
like those sound like no they sound like
separate mode
patience to me yeah there yeah and even
though the so sharing like there's a
part of that that I think is just
genuinely you you just like to share
right and that's awesome I like sharing
feelings and talking about how I feel
and malicious that's why I love my
brakes on my tray I'm like hey what my
strings are you all without muses and
you know we can get into a whole other
conversation about that that's like
super fun for me yeah and and also it
sounds like you share part of the reason
that you share the degree with which you
share is to try to prevent people
misunderstanding you just a bit okay
yeah yeah so and and when when they
misunderstand you how does that affect
you like what happens within you when
when you see that happening and how does
it happen like over Twitter or like what
a little wedding sometimes I get Dan's
most of it is just messages emails etc
hey Shh are we are we going to dangerous
territory is Tammy should we switch
gears no no no that's cuz she hears
someone outside okay like no I mean it
sounds like Tammy is very are you sure
it's because she hears something outside
or it's because she's sensing something
within you because of what we're talking
about
I think it's outside good
she's like growls what if she used stuff
everything wolf um but that'd be cool if
she could send something inside me and
then like growl from that I've never
seen her do that but that'd be really
cool she probably does other things
besides growl she does when I'm like sad
or whatever I think she can tell I'm
like she always like cuddles me like
more and it's like super super super
healing yeah
what are we talking about though we were
talking about being misunderstood yeah
so so but it sounds like most of what
your openness is just because you want
to be open yes okay okay and we can talk
a little bit about more about being
misunderstood and why that's important
to you although I suspect that that'll
be a little bit of
less positive conversation because it's
kind of like a negative sort of thing
does that make sense yeah I'm free to
talk about mother okay so the other
thing that you mentioned is that you've
stopped giving up on love you're giving
love another chance and
and I mean so we could talk about that
too if I mean because that's what's okay
so what does that mean practically you
know just kind of fell free someone I'm
lying you know I try to convince myself
for like no I don't I don't actually
like you know it's and it's not gonna
work at all but I gotta try wait why do
you try to convince yourself that it's
not going to work out cuz I was afraid I
was gonna get hurt again initially right
but then honestly I think that's a risk
that we're all kind of willing to take
okay um by the way I have trouble seeing
your whole face because of the
microphone I'm sorry
that's okay yes I just rely on facial
expressions a lot it helps me
but if you want to hide behind the mic
then I don't want to take that away from
you well yeah I guess I'm just afraid me
yeah you do have to be a little bit
closer you can move it back to to cover
your face that's better oh sorry no
problem okay great okay so so it sounds
like you [ __ ] sorry that's okay
say okay so so you fell for someone so
those are emotions right and then
something happened in your mind where
you tried to keep yourself from falling
for them yeah and you think and you did
that to try to protect yourself yes
makes a lot of sense so this is great so
I think Lily the other advantage of you
being emotional is that I think you can
we can cover a lot more ground because I
don't have to explain like emotional
stuff to you because like you're you're
actually really in tune with your own
feelings I'm
really surprised honestly that you're
able to piece together that you have
that kind of protective reflex in your
mind to pull away from someone that you
fell for what exactly does that does
that mean love just crashed okay
I don't know yeah and and so are you do
you mind if I ask you a few questions
about that yeah are you so are you in a
relationship of some kind yeah how does
that feel pretty good I mean it's like
you take a journey another adventure you
sort of feel yeah
like I'm willing to put my all into this
I guess that's nice what that's awesome
so that sounds so positive I don't know
how else just say that I mean it sounds
like you're not expecting too much out
of it um yeah we're pretty much like
let's just go with the flow see where it
ends up I am very open like if it works
great if it doesn't doesn't like what
I'm willing to try it at the very least
that's how I feel about this yeah so it
sounds like you're hopeful but not
expecting yes so that I think is the
perfect way to be in a relationship so I
think we run into problems when you
start to expect what do you think about
that then you get disappointed
absolutely but sometimes it's hard it's
it's very hard to be hopeful without
expectation that's true how are you I'm
just I feel I feel like I'm very
realistic about this relationship though
from all the things I went through in
the past uh-huh so I just I feel like
it's just like a lot of communication
like I tell everything if there's
something that is bothering me I dress
it it's very very honey word that's like
straightforward okay so it sounds like
you're on top of it
mm-hmm right like it sounds
when when they're there issues that
arise in the relationship like either
feelings that you have or concerns that
you have that you're straightforward and
like you talk about them instead of
letting them kind of fester we yeah we
both communicate a lot and I really like
that so it feels very free and very open
very honest and at the moment no
changing all honeymoon phase I know that
so whatever hackin how long have you
guys been together
months okay
it's very nice yes so that is relatively
new but it also sounds like y'all you're
it sounds like the relationship is
actually pretty strong yeah yeah nice
yeah I don't have any problems I mean
usually like it you know that that sort
of open straightforward communication is
is rare so early in a relationship do
you mind if I ask it did you know the
person before you guys started okay okay
so I guess that makes a little bit more
sense but because usually people are
like you know they're like all kinds of
anxieties around and so I know that
you're an open person and I also know
you're a public figure so feel free to
not answer this question I'm just not
sure how often I can call this person
this person so can I have a name Michael
okay okay so tell me a little so it
sounds like you've you've really given
this a shot and you're acknowledging
that you don't know where it's gonna go
but you feel pretty optimistic about it
yes yeah so what's that like the you
know I I know the beginning of a
relationship is always like man that
person can do no wrong perfect it's like
sweet and it's super cute I know this
but I'm enjoying it for what it is
Yeah right and I realize it will end
eventually well maybe well I don't know
I've heard stories so but again it's
just whatever comes at me I will I will
tackle it then
yeah so so yeah so Lily okay let me just
think for a second so I want you to just
notice what words you're using right so
once again you're creating distance
between what your mind kind of like
projects and expects and you're saying
like you know that this is the honeymoon
phase in that it very well could end but
that too is acceptance right so like
you're kind of accepting that this could
be the honeymoon phase and you're
enjoying it for what it is that also is
super zen so like that's the whole point
right so like when so I'll just give you
an example so if I walk outside so
spring is coming and I don't know what
part of the world you live in but I
don't know if you're gonna have flat are
you gonna have like flowers and stuff in
bloom where you are I live in California
that's okay so I don't I don't know how
much of a spring really hits California
but so I live in Massachusetts and and
you know winter is brutal here and then
also spring is like super super
beautiful and and so you know that some
people what they do when they have
something good in life is they try to
hold on to that and that I think holds
people is the more you try to hold on to
what you have the more held back you
become and what I'm hearing from you is
that you're not trying to hold on to the
honeymoon phase you're just trying to
enjoy it while it lasts yeah and so so
you know the Zen master when they look
at a flower that's in bloom they don't
try to hold on to the beauty of that
flower for ever they don't try to
capture it they don't try to hold on to
it forever and this is what we try to do
with like Instagram and cameras and
iPhones is we try to capture memories
and moments in our lives forever but the
Zen master what they do is just
appreciate the beauty of the flower for
what it is and appreciate that it's
transient and that it will eventually
wither and it doesn't mean that like
that to that like you know the plant
will still remain and there's a there's
a beauty within the plant as well and
that the plant will continue to bloom so
you just kind of accept things for what
they are instead of trying to hold on to
a particular like state in your life now
and I'm hearing a lot of just just the
nature of your language has changed
since the last time I talk to you it's
hard to pinpoint but it's just these
statements like I acknowledge so that
too is like you're acknowledging the
roller coaster that right now this is
the high phase of the relationship and
at some point the roller coaster is
going to dip but you're separating
yourself from the roller coaster and
you're saying I'm going to let myself
enjoy this and if it ends so be it if it
doesn't end get fantastic what and and I
think it that's that's that's perfect
that's like perfect
that's what I want everyone to do is to
understand that the good things in your
life they could go away or they could
stay for a while and enjoy them why they
well they last and the more that you try
to hold on to something yeah I think I
think this relationship is gonna work
out thank you III really think it is
yeah okay you know yeah I know I'm sorry
for creating an expectation but
something about this sometimes I get a
sense of things and and I I like the way
you're thinking about it and I like the
way you're talking about it and and I
hope that the guy isn't like decent dude
yeah so but I think this is yeah so Lily
the other thing is that's all I'll tell
you like you know as much as okay so I'm
gonna ask you a personal question okay
in your heart of hearts and you don't
have to answer this okay you really
don't have to answer this because this
is not helping you understand maybe I'm
just really curious in your heart of
hearts what do you think is gonna happen
you don't have to answer right no no no
stop stop for a second this is not an
expectation what I'm asking you about is
not an expectation well what I think is
going to happen what do you feel is
gonna happen or not even gonna happen
because gonna happen is like is
cognitive it's heart ache I know what I
want to happen okay of course and I want
us to work yeah okay do you feel like
it's going to work long term not talking
about expectation I want to jinx it okay
that's fine so don't say anything but I
want you to just so this is another
important point okay so there's
expectation which comes from the mind
but I think that there's there's also
something that is I don't even think
it's emotional I think it's almost more
spiritual in terms of sometimes we have
a sense of things does that make sense
so I think you're very good at it sort
of having a sense of things so this is
the end for - breaks by the way okay so
like what is your intuition it's not an
expectation it's an intuition it's a gut
and you don't even have to answer but I
would trust that right and so I would
also ask you because like my gut is
telling me very very strong things right
now
and so we don't even have to ask I get
you to answer I know what your answer is
but and so that then I want you to go
back in time and think about the other
relationships you've had and think about
what was telling you to stay in the
relationship was it your mind or your
gut or a fear or that you didn't want to
believe or what are you feeling what was
your gut telling you then what was your
intuition telling you then and what is
your intuition telling you now is it the
same or is it different
no it's different very good very
different I like that's not surprising
to me at all so I think and so that I
feel weirdly optimistic I don't even
know anything about this purse
right but I have a sense of these things
and and honestly like I don't know how
else to put this Lily but I see in your
face and your demeanor what I felt like
when I met my wife no that's that I see
it and like as crazy as this sounds so
like as much as I think about
rationality and god this is gonna be so
bad if you guys break up because I'm
staking my entire reputation and and and
stuff on horseback [ __ ] it it's what I
believe like so I actually like this is
crazy I believe in true love like I
really do and and I think I think for
all of the cognitive stuff in the
neuroscience and psychology I think that
some things are just meant to be I think
this is garma Karma right I think that
there are forces in our life that shape
who we are in the kinds of life we live
and I see that force very very strongly
in my own life and I don't know how to
put this but like I don't know how to
say this but there is no earthly way in
which I have done something to deserve
the person that I'm married to yeah go
ahead go for it no I just say things
like that I guess
no no but I mean seriously like and I
think the only the only way that this is
possible is for a force greater than me
to like be acting at it right cuz I'm
just I'm just not that good I'm just not
I'm just not I mean it's not it's not an
issue of confidence or anything I'm very
confident the person that I am but I
think it's just she's just really
amazing and I'm really really lucky to
have her I mean she stuck with me
through all kinds of stuff and and so
like in that I mean I can't and I see it
I see it in you and there are a lot of
things that were hard for us but it's
there and so I you know don't stop
believing that's really that's adorable
what does that mean a door we have
before you that's so cute
they
believe in true love and you must love
your wife so much it's just it's really
cute I really I'm enjoying this what are
you doing I'm happy thank you I'm happy
for me too
what's enjoyable about it it's just nice
thing you happy and talked so lovingly
about your life and no like it's just
beautiful to see I like it
no I'm glad you're enjoying it no no no
I mean what I said sounded weird to I'm
just really curious about what resonates
with what I'm saying you know like like
like and and I'm really I really am glad
that that it's bringing you some degree
of happiness
I always feel happy when I see like a
relationship just work and seeing them
be happy for each other and the way that
you talk about each other and just
seeing that kind of things makes me very
very happy
cuz it's just I can tell they're happy
it's it's very nice to see ya oh god how
do I wear this umm not creepy way it's
yeah I'm happy that you're happy
yes so now we come back to the
advantages of being an emotional sponge
right so I think it's I think it's
wonderful that the person that you are
are you feeling embarrassed or something
I'm confused I'm what are you
embarrassed about I just say okay let's
just let's ignore that I'm gonna keep
talking okay you ready yeah so I think
this is this is the upside of being an
emotional sponge so I think this is
what's fun and amazing about your life
and also like really difficult is
because when there's toxicity around you
it affects you but also that you can
look at another person's joy and like be
so affected by it which is beautiful so
it's like it's like when you see like a
flower in the sunshine and like you see
like warm ray
of light on those pedals like you're
capable of feeling that warmth - which
is amazing I said this in the first
conversation but you really do make me
sound very cool I really I really - very
good I know so I make you sound cool am
i how can I make you sound anything yeah
shouldn't affect that no I'm glad you
said it
no no I'm glad you said I'm really glad
you said it and I'm glad you recognized
that it's Lily - right so that's that's
the goal is to catch it when it happens
and to notice it no wonder you're doing
so much better because you caught it
really fast and this is this is
something important like if you guys
just have to catch it if you catch it
and you notice it that actually weakens
it because remember that Lily - gets out
of control when you can't see her when
she goes in vis and then she starts
wrecking your [ __ ] life it's like a
poltergeist it's like you can't see it
you can't stop it but all you need is
like you need detection you need to be
able to see her like you don't want her
hiding in the bushes you know like you
play wall right there's like the bushes
or whatever right so like Lily - is
gonna own you as long as she's like
hanging out in those places that you
can't see her and she's like attacking
you from the bushes or whatever but once
you see it once you detect her then you
could take her on man like you can own
her like you can yeah it's good work in
continues yeah I made like after that
and maybe Lily one emailed and look to
eat now after this I'm gonna need to
make Ozen fully emotes yeah cool this is
it's just it's cute it's very cute I
like to call it I really like the
concept a lot like separating it yeah
separating what so when I say something
or I know it's coming from really to
having that separation I guess even
though it's still me I know but giving
like acknowledging that all that's
that's really - talking yep yes that's
how our mind works and I think
oftentimes we forget
that just because like we think that
Lily too is like the speaker of truth
right and whatever Lily too says like
you accept is true but now does that
make sense like when you're feeling bad
you accept lily twos statements or
thoughts as facts but when you separate
out Lily too you begin you you weaken
her ability to convince you that she's
correct because you recognize that she's
just a part of your mind and that your
mind is not infallible in fact it thinks
were stupid wrong thoughts all the time
yeah and and so that's that's awesome
Lily I'm really happy for you I think
you've changed a lot since the last time
I talked to you thank you I'm really
glad we had our talk yeah I think
initially after the talk I was feeling
embarrassed because I cried so much and
thousands of people like some it
affected a lot of people and I wasn't
sure I was just embarrassed I guess not
sure and then afterwards I was feeling
happy that it affected people in a good
way in a positive way cuz I really did
receive so many private messages about
that conversation and thanking me and
how much it helped them and that made me
really really happy like super happy
yeah and just yeah I'm really glad I had
that conversation and showed all that
yeah I'm glad you did too I think a lot
of life is hard because we like try to
live it alone you know and and we just
all of the burdens like despite being
such an open person I can imagine that
you probably share a lot but you're you
probably hold a lot of the burdens that
you carry like to yourself yes and and
you share a lot of the positivity which
I think can be good in some ways like
because you can be kind of inspiring and
comforting to people who are feeling
down but I think in a sense like you
know when you share something with
someone else it kind of like
lessons the weight on you and and I
think you were carrying a lot of burden
of negativity like within yourself about
I'm not quite sure what but and and so I
think it's good that you sort of let
that go a little bit and also let it be
and let it pass and also I think part of
the reason that you're probably feeling
better is because of Michael because
that sounds like it's calling me will
call me again I I know yeah it is what
it is I say this a lot now yeah good
good it is what it is right and it
sounds wonderful is it wonderful okay so
you don't know Jake said I get it
right so you don't wanna okay fine
objectively no it is it is above average
it is above average excellent I don't
want to be perfect because it's jinxing
it and that's like you know just
expectations is up but it is nice yeah
no I think being with a good person is
really really nice for your life also in
my experience some of that doesn't
really go away like the honeymoon phase
I think the honeymoon phase is really
only applicable to relationships without
the one I think with the one the whole
reason that they're the one is because
the honeymoon phase doesn't really stop
Wow I hope I mean do I hope yeah I hope
I have or find what you have sounds
amazing
yeah I guess wait I think it's it's
different for every person right so
remember we don't want to play someone
else's handsome but I think I think it's
fine to hope that you find something one
day that describes sort of what I'm what
I have
yeah yeah I hope I think it's closer
than you think man but let's not jinx it
okay let's stop talking about a singing
I'm not sick but no no no you should be
dude you should absolutely be
superstitious when it comes to my stuff
right because this is not the kind of
stuff that
[ __ ] around with oh no yeah I become so
superstitious recently it's bizarre
expired I said once I had kids like I
just it's weird it's like parts of my
brain woke up that were like dormant and
now it becomes like superstitious okay
in our culture like we like my
grandmother used to talk about the evil
eye mm-hm and and like I was like that's
BS there's no evil eye
but now I've so that's the evil eye just
kidding I don't even know it's like when
some when people so in in my culture
it's like when people when you're like
overly happy or joyous and people become
jealous like bad things happen to you to
put you back in line oh that's that's
the best I can think of that's the best
description I see I didn't feel like at
one point I was too scared to be too
happy I guess we're cautiously too happy
yeah cuz I what if something bad happens
to counteract that yeah I don't know
that superstition or anxiety or whatever
I always felt that yeah so like I know
this is what I'll say like I think that
I don't think it's rational and yet
sometimes I think that we encounter and
experience things that defy rationality
and okay and I think that if you want to
be a real scientist you have to accept
that your view of the world may not be
correct and that there may be forces at
play in the world that we just don't
understand yet and if we just assume
that those forces are wrong just because
they don't fit into our worldview that's
not truly being scientific so what a
scientist does is collects data from the
world and then form basis creates a
worldview that accounts for your
observations it's not let's say it's not
assuming a worldview and then
discounting your observations because
they don't fit with what you believe the
world looks like and essentially what's
happened to me recently over the past
couple of years is like I've just like
started to feel weird things like I
don't know how else to put it
it's like making me think about this
evil eye stuff which is not rational at
all I have no idea how this [ __ ] works
but I feel it and so I don't know if
it's just parental paranoia and just
part of my psychology I'm not sure but
you know I start to I start to take
these things seriously like the knock on
wood and stuff yes a little stop talking
about Oh Michael it's not even use this
name we'll call it this person back to
this I think anyway so what I'm what do
you I'm not really sure where to go from
here what huh hmm well you doing today
like like how am i spending my day yeah
so for today I I mean I worked in the
morning I'm gonna work after this and
then I will go home and hang out with my
kids for a while and then may do a
little bit of work after that or
actually I'll probably just like watch
something and hang out with my wife for
a little while and then are you watching
right now I'm watching a couple of
things so I'm watching we saw we started
watching Curb Your Enthusiasm season 10
recently oh that's so funny yeah and so
we started watching that just a couple
of days ago I'm also watching Marv
Chael on Netflix which is like a British
like crime kind of thing I like those
like I don't know if you seem like a
Luthor or anything but I'm a big fan of
yeah we don't sorry god oh my does it
sound like a nice relaxing day cleanness
yeah
what's what's your day looking like um
yeah I shoot up one I have a little
voiceover workshop at night one stream
what does that mean shoot at one Oh some
and part of the content cater house
thingy right so we have a YouTube
channel that we run together and we have
shoots so we film something I see I'm
not sure what we're doing okay he needs
cooking I'm not sure it's always
different okay okay I didn't know how
that stuff um I may be awful Netflix
later yeah it's Michael the person this
person the person said the person the
fridge he does have a name the person
the person
let's not invoke any kind of evil eye on
him okay yeah oh my god I feel like I do
understand like that slight paranoia if
I open up too much you know
yep the point it yeah mmhmm yeah Wow so
I like I think that if we're actually at
a good stopping place we can just stop
if if you want or we can open things up
to questions like what do you what do
you feel like doing should we do some
Q&A I'll do whatever you do okay let's
go for like another can evil eye let's
do let's try to see if people have a
couple of questions and then and then
yeah I mean sometimes we have long
meandering conversations that last an
hour and a half but I think that we you
know I I'm very happy with where you are
and I don't have any particular
curiosity or anything oh let me just see
okay so
want to meet Michael okay freaky okay
hey hey hey
so people have questions oh crap okay
let's see
free what unmute we just talking about
evil ID on dog no no no no evil eye on
the dog I'm I'm so confused
what twitch had to say they're talking
about freedom uh you had it's uploaded I
guess huh and then like if you if you
put on sup lot only subscribers can talk
and then when you disable it
its freedom oh I see I had yes okay oh
you monster or someone else did say yeah
I don't know how this stuff works little
Ian's about psychology spirituality or
the evil eye but okay here we go
boomer murca invaded chat yeah okay cool
they're being cued up yeah so what are
you watching on Netflix ah
I'm watching this anime about volleyball
which is really cool it's it's yeah it's
just an anime about volleyball it's
really fun um that's it I mean we
watched like a bunch of the shows
already um you've heard of I'm not okay
with this
I've heard of it I don't know what it is
it's like yeah it's a coming-of-age sort
of story about a girl who has powers not
bad hmm I'm always looking for stuff to
binge on Netflix yeah me too um okay I
think we're getting questions okay here
we go
okay so let's go so people are asking
about Lily's dosha did you know anything
about Ayurveda Lily oh you'll you'll
maybe like this okay oh sure yeah so um
you know what myers-briggs is based on
no so myers-briggs is based on the work
of Carl Jung who was a psychoanalyst in
a contemporary of Freud's and Carl
Jung's a lot of his theories were based
on actually like Indian philosophy and
were actually based on Ayurveda in IRA
as traditional Indian medicine
and an Ayurveda sort of posits that like
so Western medicine kind of says that
everyone is the same
so if you think about like what you
study in Western medicine you study like
heart attacks or the flu or a corona
virus right so a doctor learns how to
treat a disease they don't learn how to
treat a person with me
so Ayurvedic swith kind of a different
assumption it says that all people are
different and that we each have like
different elemental balances is kind of
they use elements to describe certain
characteristics like personalities or
physical form or things like that and
those they have three kind of quote
unquote elements which are called doshas
and then based on someone's door sha you
can kind of understand how their mind
works so I kind of call it a cognitive
fingerprint so we each have like a
unique fingerprint and we each have a
unique like way that our mind works
so one exactly thing so there are all
kinds of traits so for example you are
predominantly gafas and I think you're
probably gonna and Vata so gafas is kind
of think about earth and water so people
who are guffaws they they deal with
stress when their mind becomes stress
they become kind of isolated and
depressive they start to think negative
self thoughts about themselves so vadas
are different because vadas become
anxious and start thinking negative
thoughts about the external world so
they start worrying about oh this is
gonna happen and this is gonna happen
and this is gonna happen whereas cough
is when they get stressed say like oh
like I'm dumb because I did this I'm
dumb because I did this I'm dumb because
I did this the third element is fit
though which is kind of like fire and so
when pit does get stressed they get
angry at other people so they're like oh
this is dumb like this person is dumb
like these people suck in traffic like
road rage is a classic bit the
phenomenon whereas like I would imagine
you don't have road rage like you just
don't understand why people wrote rage
because that's just not how your mind
works right and and so you're
predominantly kapha and I think you have
Vata as well and the other thing about
Ayurveda is that there are physical
characteristics associated with these as
well so can you look directly at the
camera
and can you take off your glasses oh can
we do that yes sir sorry okay so so the
other thing is is there are some
physical characteristics which you can
kind of us all do my face okay so my
face tends to be like a little bit
angular like if you look at my nose like
my nose is very like angular like your
faces has kind of a rounder quality to
it if you look at my hands so my hands
have very prominent veins on the back of
my hands my fingers tend to be like long
and thin these are all Vata
characteristics so these are very wind
characteristics so vadas are angular
sharp cold so I tend to like get cold
hands and feet very easily so there are
all kinds of physical characteristics so
you have a lot of roundness to your face
and it doesn't I'm not saying you're fat
or anything like that I'm just talking
about like your your your nose is like
rounded whereas mine is like angular
right so there's like angular there's
less angularity to your features has
nothing to do with beauty or
attractiveness or anything like that
it's just like some people's hands and
faces and stuff just look different the
other thing about vatta's is like
sivadas have eyes that are bigger than
their plate so what that means is that
they usually feel super super hungry but
then it doesn't take a whole lot of food
to fill them up Gotha is kind of have a
pretty stable and steady appetite so do
you get filled up easily and feel hungry
easily I eat a lot yeah so I think
you're predominantly Gotha so but your
guff about that and I think the other
tricky thing about this is that like I'm
not sure
because all of this stuff was developed
with like Indian people so I don't know
how how exactly to translate this stuff
to other ethnicities I think a lot of it
translates pretty easily like mentally
it's fine like I'm really good at
picking out someone's mental dosha so
other characteristics of gafas or their
mind is resilient and also very stable
so I know this is gonna sound bizarre to
you but your cup your capacity to
withstand emotional punishment is
actually very very high so like cough I
think that before yeah so guffaws have
high h peoples that's the other way to
think about it so yeah if I want to read
up more on this what should i search up
um so give me like a week and then I
will send you a video about it okay
that's me I can actually I can link you
a video if you promise not to link it to
anyone else because it's a rough draft
version but if you're really okay so
we're gonna try to make it like look
better but if you're really curious
so other features so the interesting
thing about guffaws is like it's good
because they're very resilient may have
high HP pools but the downside of gafas
is that they also tolerate negative
situations for a lot longer than other
people would because they can actually
just they have high HP pools so they'll
like sit in piles of acid or poison for
a long period of time because they can
handle it and so understanding you know
what your though she is is important and
basically everything I was kind of
telling you about being an emotional
sponge comes from Gotham so gafas are
also emotional sponges so vodkas tend to
get like very very deranged by like the
emotions of others like they can get
very affected by them and they can't
really tolerate them bit those are sort
of medium they get somewhat influenced
by other people but like not so much
they tend to be like a little bit more
narcissistic or ambitious they're kind
of like fiery so they tend to be
argumentative and things like that res
guffaws tend to absorb a lot of like if
you think about you know the wind like
how much like how much can the wind hold
not wait I know it's a bizarre question
actually yeah like a strong wind could
total line but yes sir how much
generally not much how much how much can
hold way more than wind yeah absolutely
right
so Gotha and this is why they kind of
came up with like gafas being earth and
water and Vata being wind it's not like
there's actually like wind inside me
with what the people did in ancient
india is they like looked at different
elements and they realize there are
certain like qualities to those elements
and they use those elements as
descriptions to help us understand like
certain qualities of people so it's not
like we can biopsy you and you're gonna
find like earth inside you and you're
gonna find wind inside me they kind of
so you're kind of stable you're
resilient you're absorbent
whereas like i'm not absorbent at all
like people ask me how can i do this
work and it's because i don't absorb any
of it because i'm just like the wind
so i sit with someone and i feel things
very intensely with them and then much
like the wind i blow really hard in one
direction and then i just stop and then
i blow really hard in this direction so
i think a lot of people who are confused
about why I do this work I'm able to do
this work because I'm a Vata so stuff
doesn't sit with me because I just I
feel things really intensely and then
like I just jet like I just let it
passes through me right and it's not
that it's like good or bad it's not
better or worse than yours it's just if
you tried to do this work you'd probably
not be like a do a very good job at it
because they're not it's nothing you
wouldn't do a good job it's that you do
a different kind of good job whereas
like I would I think you'd be like a
better like you're probably a better
friend than I am because I can I can
meet someone and like be super emotional
with them for one hour but like people
don't stay in my life because I just
move on to other things so I'm really
good at like brief interactions with
people even am I like in my practice
like you know a lot of psychiatrists or
therapist will see people for years I
work with people for like six months and
then you know I try to get him better
and try to get him out the door
and and so you know I mean some people I
end up working with for years but a lot
of people like they just get better and
then I'm like okay well you're better
now so wait go live your life man stop
showing up here and and so that's
because I'm about that because I just
you know I get really excited to work
with new people and vodkas also have a
very tangential thought process so I'm
saying all kinds of random [ __ ] to you
right now it's not like uniform does
that make sense I'm just talking about
all kinds of rings yeah anyway sorry
yeah so so your predominant door shiz is
Gotha certainly mentally and and
probably VAT the second and so what that
means for you is basically everything
we've already said but I want you to
think about you know you're so in your
worst-case scenario when you're Gotha is
really really bad you're gonna feel like
mud so when you put water and earth
together you're just gonna be sluggish
and slow and not want to get out of met
bad you're gonna be like this like mud
creature instead of like a human right
well not creature and there are gonna be
other people who are like so like as
someone who's a bit though who's a fire
person when they get stressed they're
gonna be pissed off at everyone and it's
like the worse their life it gets the
more they take it out on like randomly
on other people and they're irritable
and angry like you probably don't get
very irritable or angry you probably get
withdrawn and kind of pulled in and
stuff like that and so I stopped moving
yeah absolutely yeah so so I think that
that's your dough shot that's a great
question okay so so we're gonna send
some of these questions your way okay
Lily yeah go for it see how question for
you don't - have you heard of tea
Enneagram yeah and graham and a grammar
yeah what number are you I don't know I
haven't oh I mean I I have a couple of
colleagues that use this
but I'm not sure I'm not too familiar
with it got it got it
okay this wandering but all explored I
like personality stuff too
so one of the things that I'm actually
trying to develop for people is like a
comprehensive cognitive personality test
that's based on like iron meta so it's
kind of it's gonna be kind of like
myers-briggs but I'm trying to you know
I kind of said like you're an emotional
sponge so I'm trying to figure out how
to like make a test for people to
understand their Ayurvedic
characteristics mmm yeah
so another random example of how
different though shows are different so
Vata memory is also dosha dependent so
vatta's learn things very quickly but
they also forget things very quickly bit
does kind of learn things at a medium
speed and kind of hold on the things at
the medium speed and guffaws are
actually like kind of slow to pick
things up but once they hit their stride
they'll be good forever does one of
those describe you feel like medium
speed what describe me I don't think I
learn things quickly or that slowly okay
I'm not sure yeah so we all have all
three elements within us and they're
kind of like at different levels but
anyway so here's a question free for you
so someone's asking you how do you stop
thinking about your ex any ideas
time-space you could contact fully well
mine was I don't know if this is true
for everyone but mine cheated on me so
it was easy for me to kind of cut yeah
like a bad thing the more time and space
you have away from them I think the
easier it gets
yeah okay yeah that's that's all I can
think
Haley so just to kind of echo what
Lily's saying I want you guys to
understand that your mind is going to
think about what it gets exposed to
right so like if you think about like
why did we start talking about Tammy
because Tammy was here yeah and Tammy
Bart and
can be presented and himself yeah he's a
boy she's so so she presented herself
and so we started thinking about her
like if you you know if you watch like
twitch and you watch gaming on Twitch
and you like watch a game then like
you're gonna be more prone to play it
because it's gonna be like kind of top
of mind for you so in in I think Lily's
point is really spot-on that like time
and space is very important because you
want to decrease the exposure that you
have to your ex now the other important
part here is that you also need
additional exposures because if you
don't give your mind something else to
focus on it's gonna sit with the
thoughts that it has from your ex and
you can just me in your room you're
gonna be thinking about your ex all the
time so the more that you reduce contact
and the more that you give your mind to
other exposures the less mechanically
like your mind will automatically spend
less time thinking about it so basically
exactly what Lily said so another one
for you Lily so you ready to put on your
your Zen master hat okay how do you be
very happy but still understand it won't
last forever
um this is my opinion okay I'm just
gonna if I if I'm happy and there's a
reason to be happy I just want to enjoy
it while it's there I mean I think the
fact that it's not there forever it
makes it even more special and it makes
me want to treat it even better does
that make sense it's like living freely
honestly where I'm gonna die one day
but sorry that sounded really weak you
know keep going but it's but it's true
that we're all living now and I'm happy
now so I'm gonna enjoy it while it lasts
it's how I feel about living in the
content creator house - with all my
friends I'm happy now I know it's not
going to last so that makes me even more
special cuz I know it's temporary yeah
beautiful [ __ ] [ __ ] beautiful oh
and here I thought that for a moment
that that asking you to put your your
Zen master hat on would create in you a
sense of expectation
that would prevent you from accessing
your Zen master
but you access to your Zen master I
completely agree so I want you guys to
think about this how do you be very
happy but still understand it won't last
forever the only way to be really happy
is to understand that it's not gonna
last forever that's okay right so if if
you like if if you think that something
is going to last forever and that's what
you expect you won't actually be happy
happiness exists in the present it
doesn't exist in the future and the more
that you think about holding on to
something the more that you want it to
stay this way like like them the less
happy you're going to become you're
gonna become like a miser who's like you
know hoards a bunch of money but never
spends it because they want to like be
rich and that's not like that's not no
way to live life right money is there to
be used happiness like these experiences
are meant to be enjoyed for what they
are in the present now they're not meant
to be like you held on to for the future
so then the question becomes why do
people try to hold on to things that
last forever so that's not an issue of
happiness it's an issue of security it's
an issue of insecurity right why do you
need guarantees that something is gonna
last forever because you're not
confident that you will be able to find
happiness without it so if you are
trying to make your happiness last
forever like you that's just not going
to work it's an oxymoron happiness comes
from being in the present just like Lily
said it's actually the the temporariness
of the flower that enhances its beauty
it allows us to sit with it fully
presently in the moment now and do what
it is like appreciate it for what it is
and I think that's what I hear from lily
is like she's just living like in the
present and she understands this stuff
isn't gonna last forever so be it but
something has changed where she started
to be confident about the future and
being confident about the future is
about being comfortable with yourself
today
and that's really what I sense from you
and that comes that goes back to her
acceptance right so she accepts that
this is the person that she is and she's
not perfect she's emotionally sensitive
people are gonna hurt her it still
causes her problems but yeah I don't
know if you guys can see this but like
her acceptance of that is what allows
her to treasure that's what allows her
to tolerate the transience of the
present because she's like accepting it
and like that that's what gives her the
strength to appreciate and enjoy and
love what she has now it was great
fantastic okay can we keep going cuz
you're doing a great job grace
how do you how did you learn how to
trust people again I can't imagine how
I'd ever convince myself to trust again
everything is a risk you only live once
and every time I feel when we fall in
love with someone you're kind of
accepting the fight yeah things can go
bad but I don't that's just a risk I'm
willing to take [ __ ] it
like why not yeah so beautiful I like
him he likes me and we're willing to try
that's always I mean I guess yeah okay
so beautiful so so when she says [ __ ] it
there's a Sun script word for that that
word is Vairagya and Vairagya means
detachment so we've talked about this on
stream before what I see Lily doing is
not trying to control the outcome of
this relationship you acknowledge that
there's a risk you acknowledge that
failure is an option and yet you give it
your all yes right so this is the
essence of living in the present this is
the essence of focusing on the action
instead of the outcome a lot of
suffering that people have is because
they get caught up in the outcome they
only want a relationship if it's gonna
last forever they want an a on the test
they want to make a million dollars they
want to get hired they want to do that
it's all about outcomes outcomes
outcomes it's about something happening
in the external world but here's the
crazy thing we actually don't control an
of that there is nothing Lily can do to
make her relationship successful she
can't do it I know it sounds bizarre
there's no way that she can control this
the outcome of this relationship she
can't there's nothing she can do to live
happily ever after it's impossible all
she can do is live today she can focus
on trying to make she can focus on
moving her relationship in the direction
it needs to go today you can have
another conversation to clarify
communication so that you guys are
better off for tomorrow but there's
nothing you can do to control that
you're gonna be happily ever after right
and I'll kind of say this about my own
relationship so I'm really happy for my
relationship and I've come to realize
how fragile of a thing it is that no
amount of years behind us means that
we've got it like in the clear that our
relationship has new challenges and new
stresses and despite loving each other
very much that like you know bad [ __ ]
can happen in a relationship even if
it's a really good relationship and
requires constant work you have to focus
on on your actions today instead of
trying to like secure an outcome for
tomorrow and the more that you do that
and that's what I hear from really like
so Lily's not saying so her ability to
be like peaceful in this relationship
doesn't come out of her controlling the
risk of something bad happening it
actually comes from her surrendering to
that risk she acknowledges that there's
a chance they may this may not work out
but you know [ __ ] it I'm gonna try I'm
gonna try I'm gonna try so you can't
convince yourself to trust people again
all you can do is trust people again and
understand that you're gonna get hurt
you could get hurt but you have to let
yourself be willing to embrace the pain
and the biggest problem that I see from
people that I work with and to a certain
degree twitch chat is that people are so
then their fear of pain allows them or
prevents them from living today they're
so concerned about being hurt again that
they never engage in a relationship
you're stuck Ness comes from a fear
of pain about what could happen it
doesn't come from actual pain it comes
from the hypothetical possibility of
pain down the road and so then you won't
you won't let yourself trust again
you won't open yourself up you won't
give yourself over to someone else and
let them like give them the potential to
hurt you and it's just not how how it
works like you're gonna be stuck and
what lily has done is say [ __ ] it and
she has she has possibly opened herself
up to even more hurt than she felt
before and also is is enjoying it in the
moment right and and you know Lily we're
here to support you of things you know
if you're struggling in some way by the
way just that way but I think it's I
have a good feeling about this oh man if
it doesn't work out you're the first
person I'm gonna mess up septic well
they're little you could blame me okay
so okay so last question how do you move
past the honeymoon phase and continue to
make it work we used to have open
communications like Lily has has been
talking about but he has retreated back
into his more loner type shell recently
and it's hard to get him to talk talk to
me about deeper things anymore I was
thinking the same thing I can't relate
to this right now yeah it's hard because
I mean in the beginning you think yeah
we're always going to communicate with
each other we're always going to be
honest with each other but things can
change and that sounds really difficult
I'm not I don't know I don't know if I
have a good answer for this yeah so so
let me try to take a stab at it so I
think the first thing is that when
people retreat back into their like
previous personalities like they're kind
of maladaptive personalities there's
usually a cause for that right and and I
think that trying to understand a little
bit about like what has changed in that
person's life that's causing them to
kind of go back to comfort
so the loner type shell is sort of like
a comfortable place because he doesn't
have to let people in and and he can
kind of you know isolate his negative
feelings from other people he doesn't
want to show anyone he doesn't want to
you know he wants to just kind of
retreat into himself and um you know I
don't know exactly what the gender of
the asker is but I'm just gonna assume
for a moment that there that she's
female and so I think that your ability
to like be empathic and recognize that
there are deeper things that he's not
talking about he may not really
understand that right so he may not be
able to like put the pieces of the
puzzle together in the way that you are
that they're deeper things going on and
that's why he's retreating he may not
understand that he may just think that
he's behaving exactly like he used to
and the really sad thing about this is
that there's not necessarily anything
that you can do doesn't mean that you
can't do anything but I'm saying like
what we're talking about here with Lilly
is that you can't control what happens
in a relationship you can only try so
there's no magic answer here that's
going to get him to open up you can
certainly try in their conversations
that you can have but the first thing
that you have to accept is that if you
want your communication to go back to
the honeymoon phase you can't do that on
your own it takes two people and we
heard that from Lilly today right so it
sounds like the person that we shall not
name is also makes a sincere effort to
like communicate and be open and and it
takes two to communicate so the the best
that that I can kind of offer you is to
like start by asking an open-ended
question so ask your partner like what
it like how do you feel about how a
relationship is going are there things
about it that you're concerned about or
the things about it that you're happy
about like what what are we doing well
and what are we doing not so well and
then be transparent with them about
saying hey I feel like you're kind of
retreating into yourself and that we
used to talk a lot more this is the
really tricky thing once you say
something like that they're gonna get
defensive and the main thing that you
have want to do is disarm that defensive
miss in the way you disarm that
defensiveness is by making it an us
issue and not a you issue right so
instead of saying you're retreating into
your loner shell can you please change
say like hey what's going on like how
can we understand like I used to feel
more connected to you and I'm having
trouble like feeling that way can you
help me understand like how how can I
feel like I don't know if it's on me
right because this could be on you too
it may not be that he's a loner it may
just be that you're suddenly like more
needing more emotional support and maybe
you're the one that's changed so
acknowledge that possibility to them and
just acknowledge that you feel like we
used to commit communicate a lot more
and you feel like we're not
communicating as much and then ask your
partner what they think about that and
what can the two of you do about that
together is there something that you're
saying that causes him to retreat or is
he frustrated by things but just make it
about us this is the big thing big big
big big thing and this is why I'm also
optimistic about lily is because it
sounds like the relationship is a
two-way street it's it's not about two
individuals in a relationship the
relationship becomes the unit it's not
no longer about me and you it's about us
and we and the more that you kind of
frame things towards like that I think
the less you'll disarm defensiveness got
it
alright last thoughts or questions Louie
no this was a nice conversation yeah I
really enjoyed okay yeah was that is
that our goal is that I came very easily
okay I almost cried when you were
telling you about your there were some
tears coming up tears of joy yeah joy
joy joy joy sadness joy yeah that's like
okay well that's okay I mean you know
crying's not bad okay well thanks a lot
for coming on again and and I really
enjoyed talking to you and I'm really
happy for like you know where you've
come and I'm optimistic for you and I'm
rooting for you and if there's anything
if there's any way that you know we can
support you or help you or things like
that then then let us know and strong
work and good luck take care good luck
in your work
okay